"The Dark Arts are many, varied, ever-changing, and eternal. Fighting them is like fighting a many-headed monster, which, each time a neck is severed, sprouts a head even fiercer and cleverer than before. You are fighting that which is unfixed, mutating, indestructible."
—Professor Severus Snape to a Defence Against the Dark Arts class[src]
The Dark Arts, also known as Dark Magic, refers to any type of magic that is mainly used to cause harm. The Dark Arts encompass many spells and actions ranging from using the Unforgivable Curses to brewing harmful or poisonous potions to breeding Dark creatures such as Basilisks, and its practise is generally illegal. Practitioners are referred to as Dark wizards or witches, the most prominent and powerful of whom was Lord Voldemort. His followers, known as Death Eaters, also practised the Dark Arts.

Contents[show]
Nature of the Dark ArtsEdit
Dumbledore: "You call it 'greatness,' what you have been doing, do you?"
Riddle: "Certainly. I have experimented; I have pushed the boundaries of magic further, perhaps, than they have ever been pushed -"
Dumbledore: "Of some kinds of magic. Of some. Of others, you remain...forgive me...woefully ignorant."
Riddle: "The old argument. But nothing I have seen in the world has supported your famous pronouncements that love is more powerful than my kind of magic, Dumbledore."
— Albus Dumbledore and Tom Marvolo Riddle[src]
File:Ph734805jp.jpg
The Dark Arts are generally regarded as corrupting to those who use them (which is part of the reason they are considered "dark"). After engaging in them extensively for many years, even Tom Marvolo Riddle's appearance demonstrated his corruption — he lost his former handsomeness, eventually taking on serpentine physical qualities and red eyes[1]. Albus Dumbledore, in particular, suggested that engaging in any of the Dark Arts that involve murder was damaging to the soul; for instance, he told Severus Snape that Draco Malfoy's soul was "not yet so damaged" that he is probably capable of murder, but that if he did go through with murder, his soul would be "ripped apart"[1]. This suggests that using very Dark magic, such as the Killing Curse, damages an individual's soul. The Dark Art of creating a Horcrux involves literally splitting the soul for the unnatural purpose of achieving immortality.

According to Snape, Dark Arts are inconsistent, where everytime a branch is defeated, it only comes back "fiercer and cleverer" than before. It is therefore imperative that one's defences must be as versatile as these foul arts themselves.

Powerful Dark spells also require malicious intent in order to be successful. To cast the Cruciatus Curse, for instance, one must truly desire to cause pain in and of itself, according to Bellatrix Lestrange[2]. The Dark Arts can also be difficult to control; for example, Vincent Crabbe lost control of the cursed fire he created in 1998 and was killed by it[3]. Injuries caused by Dark magic sometimes never fully heal, such as George Weasley's ear after it was cut off by a Sectumsempra he was struck with during the Battle of the Seven Potters[4]

Dumbledore: "...you have never been seduced by the Dark Arts, never, even for a second, shown the slightest desire to become one of Voldemort's followers!"
Harry: "Of course I haven't! He killed my mum and dad!"
Dumbledore: "You are protected, in short, by your ability to love! The only protection that can possibly work against the lure of power like Voldemort's! In spite of all the temptation you have endured, all the suffering, you remain pure of heart..."
— Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter in 1996[src]
According to Albus Dumbledore, the only power strong enough to enable a person to resist the temptation of the Dark Arts, and to defeat them, is love. He is perhaps referring to the Sacrificial Protection shield which Lily Potter used to protect Harry Potter and Harry himself later used to protect the people on his side by taking a killing curse from the Dark Lord. However he was not killed by this killing curse, since the curse only destroyed the part of Voldemort inside him.

Ethical considerationsEdit
It should be noted that whilst the Dark Arts have a bad reputation, overall Dark Magic is not - by definition - "evil" magic. Indeed, dark magic can be used for good as well as evil. Even the Killing Curse can be used for good, as Albus Dumbledore said that it would not harm Severus Snape to kill him (Dumbledore) as Dumbledore had asked him to since he was going to die anyway (and it would ultimately serve to fool Voldemort to lead to his destruction).

The only exception to this rule is the Horcrux, the creation of which is an entirely selfish act - taking a life in order to prolong one's own. However, this act can be reversed by remorse for the murder, or repentance.

The Dark Arts and the lawEdit
"When a wizard goes over ter the Dark Side, there's nothin' and no one that matters to 'em any more..."
—Rubeus Hagrid[src]
Although many members of the wizarding world appear to frown upon the Dark Arts, they are not prohibited (with the exception of the Unforgivables) and may even - under certain conditions - be encouraged. For example, while Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry teaches only Defence Against the Dark Arts, Durmstrang Institute teaches the Dark Arts itself. Moreover, shops like Borgin and Burkes in Knockturn Alley openly trade in Dark artefacts, and are patronized by "hundreds of people",[5] which suggests that at least some aspects of the Dark Arts are somewhat socially acceptable among parts of the wizarding population.

Also, in times of war, the Ministry of Magic has been known to permit Aurors to use strong Dark magic against its enemies. When Lord Voldemort was in control of wizarding Britain in late 1997 to mid-1998, every aspect of the Dark Arts was legalised and taught at Hogwarts by Death Eater professor Amycus Carrow[3]

In addition, there is a matter of degree. The three Unforgivable Curses are punishable by an automatic life sentence in Azkaban Prison[6] when used on humans, except when permitted in wartime, whereas some types of magic can have more benign uses as well as Dark uses and, thus, are presumably not always illegal.

WandloreEdit
Some wand woods and cores prefer or dislike Dark Magic.

Dragon heartstring has a reputation of being suitable for it, while it's hard to perform dark Magic with Unicorn hair wands. Phoenix feather wands, like Voldemorts', are suitable for this magic.

Known Dark MagicEdit
Dark spellsEdit
"Magic, especially Dark magic ... leaves traces."
—Albus Dumbledore to Harry Potter on Dark spells[src]
A Dark Spell is primarily defined as any spell that consistently affects the object in a negative manner, usually associated with varying levels of discomfort. They can be classified into three groups: jinxes, hexes & curses. These groups form a hierarchy, with jinxes at the base, curses at the top and hexes in-between. The further one ascends up this hierarchy, the more wicked, the stronger, the longer-lasting and the less reversible the Dark spell's effects appear to be. The Unforgivable Curses are the strongest known Dark Spells in existence.

Dark potionsEdit
The following potions are identified as Dark:

Rudimentary Body Potion: A potion used to or used in combination with other magic to create a rudimentary body that can be inhabited by a non-corporeal wizard.
Voldemort's rebirth potion: This potion is said by Voldemort to be "an old piece of Dark Magic"[6]. Its ingredients include a bone from the father unknowingly given, flesh from the servant willingly given, and blood from an enemy of the one for whom it is intended. It creates a new body for a Dark witch or wizard who has used Horcruxes and lost their original body, as Voldemort did. This new body is replica of the old one and has its former powers too. It apparently requires that the Dark wizard exist within a rudimentary body that can be placed within the cauldron after all the ingredients are added. If the blood of the enemy contains infections or protections, like a love sacrifice or lycanthrophy, it will also poison or protect the wizard or witch reborn with it.
Drink of Despair: a Potion used in a basin in which the locket Horcrux was hidden. Its consumption caused the drinker to see "terrible things", dehydrate, and experience excruciating burning in one's insides. Because of the 'terrible things', it has an effect similar to the presence of a Dementor.[1]
Dark itemsEdit
File:Riddle Diary.jpg
"Of the Horcrux, wickedest of magical inventions, we shall not speak nor give direction–"
—the introduction of Magick Moste Evile[src]
Some items can be bewitched by Dark Magic for various purposes. They then become known as Dark Magic Artefacts (or simply Dark items). The following items are associated with Dark Magic:[7]

Cursed books: Books can be bewitched to cause harm to anyone who attempts to read them. Examples include Sonnets of a Sorcerer, which causes the reader to speak in rhymes, and an unnamed book that a person can never stop reading. Tom Riddle's Diary is both a cursed book and a Horcrux.
Hand of Glory: A severed human hand with a candle placed within it. It provides light only to the holder, and commonly attributed to thieves and plunderers. It is able to penetrate Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder.
Horcrux: Thought to be the Darkest of all objects, a Horcrux is an object (or living being) that contains a fragment of a Dark wizard's divided soul. It is used to provide protection against death.[1]
Opal necklace: This item turned up in Borgin and Burkes, was apparently purchased by Draco Malfoy, and almost killed Katie Bell. It is cursed very heavily, to the extent that merely touching it causes nearly instant death. It has killed at least nineteen Muggles.
Objects in the Black house: Some of the objects in 12 Grimmauld Place, are probably Dark, such as a music box, purple robes, and a locket Horcrux.[2]
Blood quill: A quill that does not require ink, as it writes with the blood of the person using it. What the user writes will be carved onto the back of his or her hand, and the blood from the words sliced into the hand will be magically siphoned and used as ink on the parchment. It is used as a torture device.
Dark creatures / beingsEdit
Many magical creatures and beings alike may be considered Dark. For example: the dementor, lethifold, basilisk, grindylow, acromantula, vampire and werewolf, all of which are deeply feared and-or despised by numerous different wizards and witches


Known Dark magic
Dark charms
Main article: Dark charm
"Magic, especially Dark magic... leaves traces."
—The negative effects of Dark magic[src]
Crouch Jr kills spider
An Unforgivable Curse, the Killing Curse (Avada Kedavra)

A Dark charm is primarily defined as any charm that consistently affects the object in a negative manner, usually associated with varying levels of discomfort.

Dark charms can be classified into three groups: jinxes, hexes, & curses. These groups form a hierarchy, with jinxes at the base, hexes in-between, and curses at the top. The further one ascends up this hierarchy, the more wicked, the stronger, the longer-lasting and the less reversible the Dark spell's effects appear to be. The Unforgivable Curses are the strongest known Dark spells in existence, as their effects are very powerful and their use requires skill.[19]

The following are some Dark spells:

Type	Spell	Incantation
Jinx
Minor dark magic, small inconvenience to the target.	Knockback Jinx	Flipendo
Oppugno Jinx	Oppugno
Revulsion Jinx	Relashio
Hex
Moderate dark magic, causing major inconvenience to the target. 	Bat-Bogey Hex	Unknown
Knee-reversal hex
Toenail-growing hex
Curse
The worst kind of dark magic, intended to affect the target in a strongly negative manner.	Cruciatus Curse	Crucio
Imperius Curse	Imperio
Killing Curse	Avada Kedavra
Dark potions
Dark Potions are potions that cause negative effects on those who drink them or cause harm in some way or another. Dark Potions may also include ingredients that are not common in regular potions, or possess usual properties. Some Dark potions include the following:

Potion	Notes
Rudimentary body potion	A potion used to or used in combination with other magic to create a rudimentary body that can be inhabited by a non-corporeal wizard. Its ingredients consist of Unicorn blood and potent Snake venom.[21]
Regeneration potion	A potion noted by Lord Voldemort to be "an old piece of Dark Magic". Its ingredients include a bone from the father unknowingly given, flesh from the servant willingly given, and blood from an enemy of the one for whom it is intended. It creates a new body for a Dark witch or wizard who has used Horcruxes and lost their original body, as Voldemort did. This new body is a replica of the old one and has its former powers too. It apparently requires that the Dark wizard exist within a rudimentary body that can be placed within the cauldron after all the ingredients are added. If the blood of the enemy contains protections or infections, like a love sacrifice or lycanthrophy, it will also affect or protect the wizard or witch reborn with it.[22]
Drink of Despair	An emerald green potion used in a stone basin in which the locket Horcrux was hidden. Its consumption causes the drinker to see "terrible things", dehydrate, and experience excruciating burning in one's insides. Because of the 'terrible things' it subjects its victim to, it has an effect similar to the presence of a Dementor.[23][24]
Dark items
"Of the Horcrux, wickedest of magical inventions, we shall not speak nor give direction —"
—the introduction of Magick Moste Evile[src]
Some items can be bewitched by Dark Magic for various purposes. They then become known as Dark Magic Artefacts (or simply Dark items). The following items are associated with Dark Magic:[25]
Object	Notes
Cursed books	Books can be cursed to cause harm to anyone who attempts to read them. Examples include Sonnets of a Sorcerer, which curses the reader to forever speak in limericks, and an unnamed book that a person can never stop reading it. Tom Riddle's Diary is both a cursed book and a Horcrux.[26]
Hand of Glory	A severed human hand with a candle placed within it. It provides light only to the holder, and is commonly attributed to catching thieves and plunderers.[16] It is also able to penetrate Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder.[27]
Horcrux	An object (or living being) that contains a fragment of a Dark wizard's divided soul. It is used to provide protection against death, thus providing Immortality, and is considered to be the darkest of all objects.[1]
Opal Necklace	A cursed item which turned up in Borgin and Burkes, was apparently purchased by Draco Malfoy, and almost killed Katie Bell. It is cursed very heavily, to the extent that merely touching it causes nearly instant death. It has killed at least nineteen Muggles.[28]
Objects in the Black house	Various objects belonging to the House of Black can be classified as Dark, such as an Enchanted music box that would put people to sleep, Ancient purple robes that would strangle those who get close, a Grandfather clock that would shoot heavy bolts at passers-by, a spider-like tweezers that would puncture somebody's skin, a silver snuffbox that would bite an individual, and a highly dangerous locket Horcrux that contained Voldemort's mutilated soul.[29]
Black Quill	An enchanted quill that does not require ink, as it writes with the blood of the person using it. What the user writes will be carved onto the back of his or her hand, and the blood from the words sliced into the hand will be magically siphoned and used as ink on the parchment. It is used as a torture device.[30]
Dark creatures/beings
Many magical creatures and beings alike may be considered Dark, all of which are deeply feared and/or despised by numerous wizards and witches as a result of the danger these creatures pose to all living things. Some of those creatures/beings include the following:

Acromantula
An Acromantula

Acromantulas are a species of giant spider with a taste for human flesh. There is a large colony of them living in the Forbidden Forest on the grounds of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.[31] It is implied that most wizards stay clear of them due to how dangerous they are. Breeding Acromantulas has been made illegal by the Ministry of Magic and are included in the Ban on Experimental Breeding.[32]

Banshee PM
A Banshee

The Banshee is a dark creature native to Scotland and Ireland. They are malevolent spirits who assume the form of skeletal women with green skin and black hair, with a high-pitched scream which is fatal to the ears.[33] The Banshee can be effectively combated with the Laughing Potion.[34] 

Basilisk - FBcases
A Basilisk

A Basilisk is a giant serpent, and is also known as the King of Serpents. Looking a Basilisk directly in the eye will immediately kill the victim, but indirect contact will merely render them Petrified. It is known as one of the foulest creatures on Earth, and is also the mortal enemy of spiders.[35] Breeding Basilisks has been made illegal by the Ministry of Magic and are included in the Ban on Experimental Breeding. The punishment for breeding this monstrous creature depends on the ruling of the Wizengamot.[32]

Boggart Shapeshifting
A Boggart

Boggarts are amortal shapeshifting non-beings who have the ability to assume the form of an individual's worst fear. Their true appearance is unknown due to their shapeshifting ability, and they usually prefer to inhabit dark or confined spaces. Boggarts are mischievous entities who enjoy feeding off the human emotion of fear. They can be easily combated and restrained with the Boggart-Banishing Spell (Riddikulus), a charm which causes the Boggart to assume a humorous, non-threatening form, rendering it no longer frightening.[33]

DementorConceptArt
A cloaked Dementor

Dementors are widely considered to be one of the foulest beings to inhabit the world. Dementors feed on human happiness and thus generate feelings of depression and despair in any person in close proximity to them.[36] They can also consume a person's soul through the process known as the Dementor's Kiss. The Dementor's Kiss is considered a fate worse than death, leaving the victim in a permanently vegetative state.[11]

Grindylow FBCFTWW
A Grindylow

Grindylows are small, horned, pale-green water demons. They have long, strong (albeit brittle) fingers which they use to strangle their prey. Students at Hogwarts are taught to defend themselves against them in their third year of Defence Against the Dark Arts education.[37]

Hag WU
A Hag

Hags are savage beings that look like ugly, old witches but have more warts. They possess rudimentary magic, similar to that of a troll. They prefer to eat children and raw liver, and some even advertise themselves as babysitters.[14]

Inferius (Concept Artwork)
An Inferius

An Inferius is a dead body, reanimated by a Dark Wizard's spell. The spells used to reanimate the corpse are complex and difficult to perform. There is a large difference between an Inferius and a ghost. Voldemort was known to have an army of Inferi, mostly consisting of homeless Muggles that the Dark Lord had murdered.[23]

Belby - Lethifold attack - FB2017
A Lethifold attacking

A Lethifold is a carnivorous and highly dangerous magical creature. It is also considered a Dark creature because of its aggressive and violent nature. The only known spell that will work against it is the highly advanced Patronus Charm.[32]

Capture
An Obscurus

An Obscurial, is a young repressed witch or wizard who have developed a dark and parasitic energy force known as an Obscurus. The Obscurus is developed through the forced repression of a young witch or wizard's magic, usually through both physical and psychological abuse. When the Obscurus becomes powerful and loses control, it manifests itself as a floating black cloud, which is both extremely unstable and destructive in nature. Most Obscurials die before they reach the age of ten, and the only documented case of an Obscurial surviving past this age was with the American wizard Credence Barebone.[38]

A Rougarou is a dangerous dog-headed monster that inhabits the swampy regions of Louisiana in the United States.[39]

Vampire Pottermore
A Vampire

A Vampire is a dark magical humanoid that is famed for biting people on the neck and sucking their blood. They are part of the family of beings known as the Living Dead.[14]

RemusLupin WB F3 Concept of Lupin In Forest As A Werewolf Illustration
A transformed Werewolf

A Werewolf is a human-being who, upon the complete rising of the full moon, becomes a fearsome and deadly near-wolf. This condition is caused by infection with lycanthropy. Werewolves are unfairly treated and discriminated against within the magical community and are looked down upon and despised by witches and wizards who do not have the condition. The Ministry of Magic has introduced legislation in regards to Werewolves, as a means of controlling them.

The Zombie is a dark creature which is a member of the Living Dead, that swell in the Southern regions of the United States of America. They are identifiable by their greyish, decomposing skin and foul rotting smell. It is likely that these creatures have a taste for the flesh of living beings.[14]

Dark practices
Some other practices that would be considered dark include: Breaking the Ban on Experimental Breeding by hatching a basilisk,[32] for example; consuming the blood of a unicorn,[40] and Necromancy, the Dark Art of raising the dead.[23]



Known practitioners
The following wizards and witches are known to have used Dark Magic. Note that as above, the Dark Arts encompass many different types of spells and practices, including many that seem to be in everyday use by most wizards — this section is limited to those who have used strong dark magic at least once.

Dark Wizards
Wizard(s)	Notes
Barnabas Deverill	Possibly the most dangerous dark wizard of the early 18th century, notorious for using the Elder Wand to carve himself a reputation as a fearsome warlock, until his reign of terror was ended.
Delphini	The illegitimate daughter of Lord Voldemort and Bellatrix Lestrange, who attempted to reverse the result of the Second Wizarding War through Time travel in the 21st century.[8]
Dolores Umbridge	A British Ministry of Magic bureaucrat who served as Senior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic from 1985 to 1998, Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor and “High Inquisitor” of Hogwarts School during the 1995-1996 school year, and Head of the Muggle-Born Registration Commission at the height of the Second Wizarding War; credited for inventing the Black Quill, as well as giving unauthorised and malicious tasks to Dementors.
Egbert the Egregious	Mastered the Elder Wand after killing Emeric the Evil in a ferocious duel (Emeric was "slaughtered").
Ekrizdis	A dark wizard of unknown nationality and the original inhabitant of the fortress of Azkaban.
Emeric the Evil	A short-lived but exceptionally aggressive dark wizard who terrorised the south of England in the early Middle Ages; first recorded master of the Elder Wand.
Gellert Grindelwald	The most dangerous dark wizard of the early 20th century, notorious for initiating the For the Greater Good revolution that terrorised Europe from 1926 to 1945; regarded as an accomplished Seer and believer in the Deathly Hallows, having mastered the Elder Wand from Mykew Gregorovitch. Eventually defeated by Albus Dumbledore and imprisoned within his own fortress of Nurmengard.
Godelot	An "unpleasant character" who once owned the Elder Wand.
Gormlaith Gaunt	A pure-blood supremacist and the aunt of Isolt Sayre.
Hereward	Mastered the Elder Wand after murdering his own father Godelot to acquire it.
Herpo the Foul	An Ancient Greek philospher regarded as the first dark wizard to successfully hatch Basilisk, create a Horcrux and speak Parseltongue.
Loxias	Master of the Elder Wand after Barnabas Deverill and gave it the name of "the Deathstick".
Merwyn the Malicious	Credited with the invention of many unpleasant jinxes and hexes .
Morgan le Fay	The half-sister of King Arthur and Queen of Avalon, who antagonised her own brother and Merlin in many Arthurian legends; regarded as a proficient healer and bird Animagus.
Narcissa Malfoy	Not officially a Death Eater herself, believed in the importance of blood purity and supported her husband in following Lord Voldemort. Was stated by her former House-Elf Dobby as being a practising dark witch.
Niko Nenad	A former Beater for the Romanian National Quidditch team, who was infamous for jinxing an entire forest in Siberia with the assistance of local Dark Wizards near a Quidditch pitch before a game during the 1809 Quidditch World Cup, resulting in the Attack of the Killer Forest.[41]
Quirinus Quirrell	A timid child prodigy who served as Muggle Studies Professor of Hogwarts from the 1980s to 1990, and later as Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor of Hogwarts during the 1991-1992 school year, aiding Lord Voldemort in his attempt to steal the Philosopher's Stone. Died in vain trying to murder Harry Potter on his master's orders in the Skirmish in the Underground Chambers.[3]
Raczidian	A tyrannical sorcerer who (according to an ancient story) attacked a wizarding village near his Dementor-infested castle in an attempt to abduct and marry the young witch Eliana, only to be foiled by the Patronus of her orphaned lover Illyius.[42]
Salazar Slytherin	One of the four founders of Hogwarts School and most notorious champions of pure-blood supremacy, who secretly built the Chamber of Secrets for the purpose of housing his Basilisk until the time came for it to purge the school of all Muggle-born students; also regareded as one of the earliest known Parselmouths, accomplished Legilimens, and notable ancestor of the House of Gaunt.
Tom Riddle (Lord Voldemort)	An orphaned descendant of the House of Gaunt and former shop assistant at Borgin and Burkes, who became the most dangerous dark wizard of the late 20th century, ill-famed for initiating the two Magic is Might insurrections that terrorised Great Britain from 1970 to 1981, then again from 1995 to 1998; also regarded as a Parselmouth and the sole dark wizard to ever create several Horcruxes. Eventually defeated and killed by Harry Potter at the Battle of Hogwarts.
Walburga Black	A pure-blood supremacist and believer in Voldemort's cause.
Yardley Platt	Infamous wizard because he was a serial Goblin killer.
Death Eaters
Wizard(s)	Status	Notes
Alecto Carrow	Possibly imprisoned	Former professor of Muggle Studies; she taught the hateful ideology that Muggles are inferior to Wizardkind, and punished students with the Cruciatus Curse who rejected her authority.
Amycus Carrow	1997, Amycus was made Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. This class, which for all intents and purposes simply became "Dark Arts", and punished students with the Cruciatus Curse who rejected his authority.
Antonin Dolohov	Fought in the First Wizarding War, during which he tortured many Muggles as well as wizards and witches who were not supporters of the Dark Lord.
Augustus Rookwood	Spy who worked as an Unspeakable in the Department of Mysteries.
Avery Snr		Member of Tom Riddle's gang when they attended Hogwarts.
Bartemius Crouch Jnr	Dementor's Kiss	A loyal follower who helped ensure Voldemort's return to power in 1995.
Bellatrix Lestrange	Deceased	Voldemort's most loyal follower and best lieutenant. She was the last of the Death Eaters standing during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Corban Yaxley	Possibly imprisoned	Since Voldemort was in control of the Ministry of Magic, Yaxley became the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement
Draco Malfoy	Defected	Was made a Death Eater as a means to punish his father and given the task of assassinating Albus Dumbledore.
Evan Rosier	Deceased	After graduating from Hogwarts, he became a Death Eater.
Crabbe	Possibly imprisoned.	Participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
Avery II
Goyle	Returned to Lord Voldemort when he rose to power again in 1995.
Gregory Goyle		Fought in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Igor Karkaroff	Deceased	Headmaster of Durmstrang Institute and was murdered for defecting.
Lestrange		Member of Tom Riddle's gang and one of the earliest Death Eaters.
Lucius Malfoy	Defected	He joined the Death Eaters, who shared his views on blood purity, and participated in the First and Second Wizarding War.
Muliciber	Possibly imprisoned.	Member of Tom Riddle's gang and one of the earliest Death Eaters.
Mulciber	After graduating from Hogwarts, he became a Death Eater.
Nott	Member of Tom Riddle's gang and one of the earliest Death Eaters.
Peter Pettigrew	Deceased	Betrayed the Potter family to Voldemort during the First Wizarding War.[43]
Rabastan Lestrange	Possibly imprisoned	Brother of Rodolphus and brother-in-law of Bellatrix. He fought in the First and Second Wizarding Wars.
Regulus Black	Deceased	Discovered the location of Voldemort's locket Horcrux and was drowned in his lake of Inferi.
Rodolphus Lestrange	Possibly imprisoned	Brother of Rabastan and husband of Bellatrix. He fought in the First and Second Wizarding Wars.
Rosier	One of the earliest Death Eaters of Lord Voldemort. He fought in the First Wizarding War.
Severus Snape	Defected	Became a spy for the Order and was instrumental in the defeat of Voldemort.
Travers	Possibly imprisoned	He fought in the First Wizarding War, during which he helped murdered Marlene McKinnon and her family, and was imprisoned for committing this crime. He also fought in the Second Wizarding War.
Vincent Crabbe	Deceased	Died during the Battle of Hogwarts attempting to murder the trio, after conjuring Fiendfyre during the Skirmish at the Room of Requirement and perishing in the cursed flames.[6]
Walden Macnair	Possibly imprisoned	He managed to avoid Azkaban, and worked for the Ministry of Magic as Executioner. He fought in the First and Second Wizarding Wars.
Other Death Eaters	
Non-Dark Wizards
Wizard(s)	Status	Notes
Alastor Moody	Occasional user	Capable of performing the Unforgivable Curses and many other curses, hexes, and jinxes.
Albus Dumbledore	Capable of performing many curses, hexes, and jinxes.
Bartemius Crouch Senior	Capable of performing the Imperius Curse, despite his intense hatred and opposition to the Dark Arts, ironically.[44]
Ginevra Weasley	Capable of performing a highly powerful Bat-Bogey Hex[45] and could perform other curses, hexes, and jinxes.
Harry Potter	Capable of performing two of the three Unforgivable Curses and many other curses, hexes, and jinxes.
Hermione Granger	Capable of performing many curses, hexes, and jinxes.
Isolt Sayre
Minerva McGonagall	Capable of performing the Imperius Curse.[46]
Molly Weasley	Capable of performing many curses, hexes, and jinxes. This includes a powerful and lethal curse that killed Bellatrix Lestrange during the Battle of Hogwarts.[47]
Pius Thicknesse	Imperiused	While Imperiused, he performed numerous dark charms under the Death Eaters malign influence.
Viktor Krum	While Imperiused, he performed the Cruciatus Curse.[48]
Durmstrang students		Durmstrang is infamous for teaching its students the Dark Arts.[15]
Hogwarts students (1997–1998 school year)	Threatened	Forced to perform the Dark Arts, including the Unforgivable Curses. The members of the D.A. refused and were punished for it.[46]
